# BIOMD0000000091: Proctor2005_Hsp90

## Installation

Download this repository, and install with distutils

`python setup.py install`

Or, install using pip

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000091.git`

To install a specific version (in this example, from the 2014-09-16 BioModels release)

`pip install git+https://github.com/biomodels/BIOMD0000000091.git@20140916`


# Model Notes


Proctor2005 - Actions of chaperones and their role in ageing

This model is described in the article:

[Modelling the actions of chaperones and their role in
ageing.](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/15610770)

Proctor CJ, Soti C, Boys RJ, Gillespie CS, Shanley DP, Wilkinson DJ, Kirkwood
TB.

Mech. Ageing Dev. 2005 Jan; 126(1): 119-131

Abstract:

Many molecular chaperones are also known as heat shock proteins because they
are synthesised in increased amounts after brief exposure of cells to elevated
temperatures. They have many cellular functions and are involved in the
folding of nascent proteins, the re-folding of denatured proteins, the
prevention of protein aggregation, and assisting the targeting of proteins for
degradation by the proteasome and lysosomes. They also have a role in
apoptosis and are involved in modulating signals for immune and inflammatory
responses. Stress-induced transcription of heat shock proteins requires the
activation of heat shock factor (HSF). Under normal conditions, HSF is bound
to heat shock proteins resulting in feedback repression. During stress,
cellular proteins undergo denaturation and sequester heat shock proteins bound
to HSF, which is then able to become transcriptionally active. The induction
of heat shock proteins is impaired with age and there is also a decline in
chaperone function. Aberrant/damaged proteins accumulate with age and are
implicated in several important age-related conditions (e.g. Alzheimer's
disease, Parkinson's disease, and cataract). Therefore, the balance between
damaged proteins and available free chaperones may be greatly disturbed during
ageing. We have developed a mathematical model to describe the heat shock
system. The aim of the model is two-fold: to explore the heat shock system and
its implications in ageing; and to demonstrate how to build a model of a
biological system using our simulation system (biology of ageing e-science
integration and simulation (BASIS)).

This model is hosted on [BioModels Database](http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/)
and identified by:
[BIOMD0000000091](http://identifiers.org/biomodels.db/BIOMD0000000091).

To cite BioModels Database, please use: [BioModels Database: An enhanced,
curated and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic
models](http://identifiers.org/pubmed/20587024).

To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.


